* Once a VM is continuously running, the desire port must be configured (see [[3. Set Application to Run Continuously]])

* By default, requests to a server are sent to `port 80`. 
	* If an application runs on a different port, then we have two options
		1) the desired port either needs to be specified in the request
		2) requests should be redirected from port 80 to 3001
* DO NOT simply change the back-end application port to 80

#### What is nginx?
* nginx --> an HTTP server that can quickly redirect requests and serve static files. 
* nginx and Node.js compliment each other
	* If we need to send a static file or redirect a request to another URL, we should use nginx.
	* If we want to implement some kind of logic, we should use Node.js.
* nginx can be used as a reverse proxy server
	* reverse proxy server --> a server that receives requests from an external service and forwards them to another server
		* nginx will listen on port 80 and redirect the request to port 3001

#### 1) Installing nginx
* Go to the remote server 
```bash
#updates the list of packages 
sudo apt update 

#installs nginx, -y approves all the prompts automatically
sudo apt install -y nginx
```

#### 2) Installing a firewall
* Firewall --> a layer of security between a server and the outer world
	* decides which requests should pass through and which should be blocked
	* Ubuntu has a firewall called `UFW`
* Install the firewall
```bash
sudo apt install ufw 
```

* Configure UFW to allow for certain types of traffic
```bash
# opens two ports on the current machine: 80 and 443. These two ports receive HTTP and HTTPS requests coming to the server.1
sudo ufw allow 'Nginx Full'

# The command OpenSSH opens port 22, which establishes an SSH connection so that we can connect to the server via the console, even with the firewall turned on. 
sudo ufw allow OpenSSH 
```

* Turn on the firewall
```bash
sudo ufw enable 
```

* Launch nginx and set it up to start automatically
```bash
sudo systemctl enable --now nginx 
```

* Checking to ensure it is working
	* Go to the domain and ensure the following message shows up:
![A screenshot of the nginx welcome page. The title says “Welcome to nginx!” with the following text underneath: “If you see this page, the nginx web server is successfully installed and working. Further configuration is required. For online documentation and support please refer to nginx.org. Commercial support is available at nginx.com. Thank you for using nginx.”](https://practicum-content.s3.us-west-1.amazonaws.com/resources/S15_02_1674226774.png)

#### Configuring nginx
* Without configuration, nginx will send a blank HTML page by default
* Run the following command in the VM
```bash
#sudo allows us to execute a command as a super user; nano is a text editor; /etc/nginx/sites-enabled/default is a path to the nginx configuration file
sudo nano /etc/nginx/sites-available/default
```

* Delete all contents of the file (fast deletion --> ctrl + K)
* Copy the following configuration into the file (REPLACING the domain names & SEPARATING with a space)
	* This configuration code means that the server has to listen to requests on `port 80` and redirect them to `http://localhost:3001`, which is `port 3001` in our internal network. 
```bash
server {
	listen 80;
	
	server_name domainname.example.com www.domainname.example.com                                                                      api.domainname.example.com;
	location / {
		proxy_pass http://localhost:3001;
	    proxy_http_version 1.1;
	    proxy_set_header Upgrade $http_upgrade;
	    proxy_set_header Connection 'upgrade';
	    proxy_set_header Host $host;
	    proxy_cache_bypass $http_upgrade;
	}
}
```
* Save the changes using `ctrl + X`, then `y` and then "enter"
* Run a test to ensure everything is running smoothly
	* Fix any errors by going back into the file and editing as needed
```bash
sudo nginx -t

# Should receive following responses:
# nginx: the configuration file /etc/nginx/nginx.conf syntax is ok 
# nginx: configuration file /etc/nginx/nginx.conf test is successful
```

* Restart nginx
```bash
sudo systemctl reload nginx
```

* Test the server by sending a request via postman
