See: 
* [[Node - Introduction to Node.js]]
* [[Node.js - Methods]]
* [[Node.js - The Crypto Module]]
* [[JWTs (JSON Web Tokens)]]
Resources:
* Documentation: [Node.js - Crypto](https://nodejs.org/api/crypto.html)

---

# Classes
##### `Hash()`
* The `Hash` class serves as a tool for generating hash digests of data. It offers two primary methods of usage:
	* Employed as a stream, allowing both reading and writing operations. Data is written into the stream, resulting in a computed hash digest on the reading side.
	* Utilizing the `hash.update()` and `hash.digest()` methods to generate the computed hash directly.


# Methods
##### `crypto.createHash()`
* Creates `Hash` instances. `Hash` objects are not to be created directly using the `new` keyword.
	* Arguments:
		* `algorithm` -- a string specifying the algorithm to use for encryption
		* `options` -- an object specifying the options
```JavaScript
const sha256 = (string) => {
	crypto.createHash("sha256")
}
```

##### `hash.update()`
* Updates the hash content with the given `data`, the encoding of which is given in `inputEncoding`. If encoding is not provided, and the data is a string, an encoding of `'utf8'` is enforced. 
	* Arguments
		* `data` -- A string specifying the data to be encoded
		* `inputEncoding` -- the encoding of the data string (`'utf-8'` by default)
```JS
// Import the crypto module 
const crypto = require('crypto'); 

const string = 'Hello World!'
const hash = crypto.createHash('sha256')
const hashData = hash.update(string)
```

##### `hash.digest()`
* Calculates the digest of all of the data passed to be hashed
	* Arguments
		* `encoding` -- A string specifying the encoding of the returned values
```JavaScript
// Import the crypto module 
const crypto = require('crypto'); 

const string = 'Hello World!'
const hash = crypto.createHash('sha256')
const hashData = hash.update(string)
const result = hash.digest('hex')

console.log(result) 
// '7f83b1657ff1fc53b92dc18148a1d65dfc2d4b1fa3d677284addd200126d9069'
```

###### `crypto.randomBytes()`
* Generates cryptographically strong pseudorandom data. The size argument is a number indicating the number of bytes to generate.
	* Arguments
		* `size` -- a number specifying the bytes to generate; size should not be larger than than 2**31 - 1
		* `callback` -- a callback function with two arguments
			* `err` -- an error object, with the error (if it occurs, otherwise `null`)
			* `buf` -- a buffer containing the generated bytes
```JS
// Import the crypto module 
const crypto = require('crypto');  

// Generate a random sequence of 16 bytes (128 bits) & convert it to a string 
const randomString = crypto.randomBytes(16).toString('hex');  
console.log(randomString); // 5cdd183194489560b0e6bfaf8a81541e`
```